README.md, before:

# maruval

Command line utilities for [marugoto](https://github.com/uzh/marugoto) content

> Version 0.1.1

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/uzh/maruval.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/uzh/maruval)
[![codecov.io](https://codecov.io/gh/uzh/maruval/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/uzh/maruval)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/maruval.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/maruval)
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/python/black)

## Installing dependencies

*maruval* is predominantly written Python, so your machine needs Python and the Python package manager *pip* for installation. You should already have Python.

To check if you have *pip*, type `which pip3` and/or `which pip` into your command line. If either command returns a path to `pip`, you can proceed to `Installing maruval`.

To install *pip*, run the following command:

```bash
curl https://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py -o get-pip.py && python3 get-pip.py && rm get-pip.py
```

Now `which pip` should show a path to a *pip* executable.

If you want to use `marupretty`, the JSON pretty printer, you'll need to have the `jq` utility installed. Get it [here](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) and save it as `jq` in `/usr/bin`


## Installing *maruval*

Once you have *Python*, *pip3*/*pip*, and maybe `jq`, run the following:

```bash
pip3 install maruval
# or, from the git repo:
git clone https://github.com/uzh/marugoto-validator && cd marugoto-validator && python.setup.py install
```

## Commands

* `maruval`: validate marugoto data
* `marufind`: a utility to find folders with particular contents
* `marupretty`: pretty-print a JSON file or all files in a directory

### `maruval`: validate content

The main tool, *maruval*, checks for syntax and content errors in your JSON data. Use it on the command line like this:

```bash
maruval -f -nw <path-to-content>
```

Optional arguments:

* `-f`/`--fail-first` will stop *maruval* after first error
* `-nw`/`--no-warnings` will suppress warning messages

Example output (on some purposely broken data):

```bash
danny@thinkpad:~/marugoto/content$ maruval PlantationLives/
```

```php
Validating content at PlantationLives/
868 JSON files found.

====================================================================================================
Problem #1 -- Syntax error in PlantationLives/chapter2/2.2.10/page.json
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Expecting property name enclosed in double quotes: line 5 column 26 (char 94)

====================================================================================================
Problem #2 -- Content error in PlantationLives/chapter3/2.3.2/imageComponent1.json
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

'cannot be string' is not of type 'integer'

Failed validating 'type' in schema['properties']['numberOfColumns']:
    {'type': 'integer'}

On instance['numberOfColumns']:
    'cannot be string'

====================================================================================================
Problem #3 -- Syntax error in PlantationLives/chapter3/2.3.5/imageComponent1.json
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Expecting ',' delimiter: line 10 column 3 (char 144)

====================================================================================================

All done. 3 errors found. 865 files OK.
```


### `marufind`: find particular content directories

This utility takes two required arguments: the first is a comma-separated list of JSON file types; the second is the path to the dataset.

The default mode of the tool is to show directories that contain all the listed JSON file types. You can use the `-any` or `-only` flags to match directories containing any of the listed types, or only the listed types. The optional `-not` flag will invert the results.


```bash
# show directories containing both a videoComponent and textExercise file
marufind videoComponent,textExercise <path-to-content>
# show the opposite
marufind -not videoComponent,textExercise <path-to-content>
# show directories containing any of these files
marufind -any videoComponent,textExercise <path-to-content>
# show directories not containing any of these files
marufind -not -any videoComponent,textExercise <path-to-content>
# show directories containing only page, mail and dialog files
marufind -only page,mail,dialog <path-to-content>
# invert this --- directories containing more than these files
marufind -not -only page,mail,dialog <path-to-content>
```

### `marupretty`: bash utility to tidy up a file or content directory, requires [`jq`](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/)

This utility will format all files in the given directory, so you don't have to worry too much about whitespace and so on when modifying JSON files by hand.

```bash
marupretty <path-to-content>
```

### Getting help

The following commands can be used to get more information about the usage of the tools:

```bash
maruval --help
marufind --help
```

Commit message:

atom installer and process-palette

README.md, after:

# maruval

Command line utilities for [marugoto](https://github.com/uzh/marugoto) content

> Version 0.1.1

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/uzh/maruval.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/uzh/maruval)
[![codecov.io](https://codecov.io/gh/uzh/maruval/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/uzh/maruval)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/maruval.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/maruval)
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/python/black)

## Installing dependencies

*maruval* is predominantly written Python, so your machine needs Python and the Python package manager *pip* for installation. You should already have Python.

To check if you have *pip*, type `which pip3` and/or `which pip` into your command line. If either command returns a path to `pip`, you can proceed to `Installing maruval`.

To install *pip*, run the following command:

```bash
curl https://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py -o get-pip.py && python3 get-pip.py && rm get-pip.py
```

Now `which pip` should show a path to a *pip* executable.

If you want to use `marupretty`, the JSON pretty printer, you'll need to have the `jq` utility installed. Get it [here](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) and save it as `jq` in `/usr/bin`


## Installing *maruval*

Once you have *Python*, *pip3*/*pip*, and maybe `jq`, run the following:

```bash
pip3 install maruval
# or, from the git repo:
git clone https://github.com/uzh/marugoto-validator && cd marugoto-validator && python.setup.py install
```

## Commands

* `maruval`: validate marugoto data
* `marufind`: a utility to find folders with particular contents
* `marupretty`: pretty-print a JSON file or all files in a directory

## Configuring *maruval* for *Atom*

Each tool can be run from the command line, but perhaps more usefully, they can be run from within an Atom editing session.

Run the following to configure Atom:

```bash
python -m maruval.atom
```

Then, restart Atom and type `maruval` into the command palette to see the available commands.


### `maruval`: validate content

The main tool, *maruval*, checks for syntax and content errors in your JSON data. Use it on the command line like this:

```bash
maruval -f -nw <path-to-content>
```

Optional arguments:

* `-f`/`--fail-first` will stop *maruval* after first error
* `-nw`/`--no-warnings` will suppress warning messages

Example output (on some purposely broken data):

```bash
danny@thinkpad:~/marugoto/content$ maruval PlantationLives/
```

```php
Validating content at PlantationLives/
868 JSON files found.

====================================================================================================
Problem #1 -- Syntax error in PlantationLives/chapter2/2.2.10/page.json
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Expecting property name enclosed in double quotes: line 5 column 26 (char 94)

====================================================================================================
Problem #2 -- Content error in PlantationLives/chapter3/2.3.2/imageComponent1.json
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

'cannot be string' is not of type 'integer'

Failed validating 'type' in schema['properties']['numberOfColumns']:
    {'type': 'integer'}

On instance['numberOfColumns']:
    'cannot be string'

====================================================================================================
Problem #3 -- Syntax error in PlantationLives/chapter3/2.3.5/imageComponent1.json
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Expecting ',' delimiter: line 10 column 3 (char 144)

====================================================================================================

All done. 3 errors found. 865 files OK.
```


### `marufind`: find particular content directories

This utility takes two required arguments: the first is a comma-separated list of JSON file types; the second is the path to the dataset.

The default mode of the tool is to show directories that contain all the listed JSON file types. You can use the `-any` or `-only` flags to match directories containing any of the listed types, or only the listed types. The optional `-not` flag will invert the results.


```bash
# show directories containing both a videoComponent and textExercise file
marufind videoComponent,textExercise <path-to-content>
# show the opposite
marufind -not videoComponent,textExercise <path-to-content>
# show directories containing any of these files
marufind -any videoComponent,textExercise <path-to-content>
# show directories not containing any of these files
marufind -not -any videoComponent,textExercise <path-to-content>
# show directories containing only page, mail and dialog files
marufind -only page,mail,dialog <path-to-content>
# invert this --- directories containing more than these files
marufind -not -only page,mail,dialog <path-to-content>
```

### `marupretty`: bash utility to tidy up a file or content directory, requires [`jq`](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/)

This utility will format all files in the given directory, so you don't have to worry too much about whitespace and so on when modifying JSON files by hand.

```bash
marupretty <path-to-content>
```

### Getting help

The following commands can be used to get more information about the usage of the tools:

```bash
maruval --help
marufind --help
```
